# Extendicare

## PROCEDURE

**MANUAL:** CARE
**INDEX:** CARE19-P20.02
**SECTION:** Incident Management
**EFFECTIVE DATE:** April 1, 2025
**REVIEWED DATE:** March 25, 2025
**APPROVED BY:** Director, Education and Resident Services
**MODIFIED DATE:** May 26, 2025

----

## POLICY

### Zero Tolerance of Abuse and Neglect Program

## PROCEDURE

The Executive Director/Director of Care/Wellness will:

- Oversee the investigation process and ensure resolution; when risk of harm is present, ensure a prompt investigation.
- Conduct the investigation using the SBAR Tool and Root Cause Analysis Checklist Tool in the Incident Management section of the Care Manual.
- Interview the resident, where able and appropriate, at the earliest possible time after the alleged incident, and offer support during the interview.
- When conducting interviews during the investigation, utilize the Tips for Conducting Interviews Following a Resident Safety Incident Tool in the Resident Safety Incident Program policy.
- Report to the Regional Director/Operations (RD/O) and Human Resources (if the alleged abuser is a staff member) during all stages.
- Maintain confidential files that include any statements, interview/meeting minutes, and other documentation related to, or generated by, the investigation.
- Cooperate with police if applicable and store evidence securely as directed.
- Maintain privacy and confidentiality regarding the investigation.
- Only provide physical evidence to police if they provide an accurate Production Order.
- Provide reassurance and support to affected residents while maintaining regular communication with families, Power of Attorneys (POAs), Substitute Decision-Makers (SDMs), and other relevant stakeholders; refer to the Disclosure of Resident Safety Incident Procedure in the Resident Safety Incident Program policy.
- Determine actions to prevent future incidents based on the facts of the case using an interdisciplinary team approach.
- Offer union representation for unionized employees during the investigation.
- Determine if the incident meets abuse or neglect definitions, involved prohibited restraints, physical injury, or criminal violations.
- After the investigation, consult with the Regional Director/Operations (RD/O) and Human Resources (if the allegations were against a staff member) to determine interventions to deal with persons who have abused or neglected residents, decide appropriate actions, including discipline or education, information regarding potential.

----

**Helping people live better**
This document is uncontrolled when printed.
Extendicare (Canada) Inc. will provide, on request, information in an accessible format or with communication supports to people with disabilities, in a manner that takes into account their disability. Confidential and Proprietary Information of Extendicare (Canada) Inc. © 2025

----

**Page 1 of 2**

# PROCEDURE

## SECTION: Incident Management
### DESCRIPTION: Investigations of Abuse and Neglect
### INDEX: CARE19-P20.02

----

### Procedure Steps

- When the investigation is complete, immediately notify the resident and the resident’s SDM, if any, of the results of the investigation and arrange a meeting with all individuals involved to provide a summary of findings and corrective measures and actions.
- Follow province-specific regulatory reporting requirements to report the results of the investigation to the appropriate external regulatory authorities.

### Responsibilities of All Staff

- Cooperate fully with the investigation.
- Attend required meetings.
- Be aware that you may request support such as union representation, counseling, or additional resources.

----

### TOOLS

1. Potential Consequences of Confirmed Abuse or Neglect

----

**Note:** This document is uncontrolled when printed.
Extendicare (Canada) Inc. will provide, on request, information in an accessible format or with communication supports to people with disabilities, in a manner that takes into account their disability. Confidential and Proprietary Information of Extendicare (Canada) Inc. © 2025

----

**Page 2 of 2**