# Extendicare

## PROCEDURE

**MANUAL:** Infection Prevention and Control
**INDEX:** IPC2-P10.08
**SECTION:** Infection Prevention
**EFFECTIVE DATE:** February 18, 2025
**REVIEWED DATE:** February 11, 2025
**APPROVED BY:** Chief Medical Officer
**MODIFIED DATE:** May 30, 2025

----

## POLICY

### Infection Prevention

## PROCEDURE

- All staff are required to wear a fit-tested N95 respirator and eye protection during an Aerosol Generating Medical Procedure (AGMP) when a resident has a suspected or confirmed respiratory infection.
- Post AGMP signage on the Resident's door for the procedure and the required air clearance period. This sign is only used for AGMPs when a Resident is on Droplet, Droplet/Contact, or Airborne precautions.
- Post the AGMP signage for the duration of the Resident’s precautions if they are on a continuous AGMP.
- Restrict movement in and out of the Resident’s room following completion of the AGMP for the required air clearance period, if required. Open and close door slowly during this time.
- Limit the number of people in the room to only those necessary during the procedure.

### Common AGMPs (non-exhaustive list):
- Aerosolized medication administration
- Bi-level positive airway pressure (ex: BiPAP, CPAP) – non-invasive ventilation (NIV)
- Open respiratory or airway suction
- Sputum induction

### Procedures not considered an AGMP include (non-exhaustive list):
- Collection of nasopharyngeal or throat swab
- Chest compressions
- Coughing, expectorated sputum
- Oral suction
- Oral hygiene
- Intranasal medication administration, such as naloxone
- Chest physiotherapy (outside of breath stacking)
- Low-flow nasal oxygen

## EDUCATION
1. IPC2-P10-E17 - AGMP in Progress Sign

----

Helping people live better

This document is uncontrolled when printed.
Extendicare (Canada) Inc. will provide, on request, information in an accessible format or with communication supports to people with disabilities, in a manner that takes into account their disability. Confidential and Proprietary Information of Extendicare (Canada) Inc. © 2025
Page 1 of 1