# Extendicare

## PROCEDURE
**MANUAL:** Infection Prevention and Control
**INDEX:** IPC7-P10.04
**SECTION:** Immunization of Residents and Staff
**EFFECTIVE DATE:** February 18, 2025
**REVIEWED DATE:** February 11, 2025
**APPROVED BY:** Chief Medical Officer
**MODIFIED DATE:** May 30, 2025

----

## POLICY
### Immunization of Residents and Staff

## PROCEDURE
1. **Director of Care/Infection Control Professional/designate** to train staff to monitor vaccine storage who are knowledgeable of:
- Proper vaccine storage;
- Documenting temperatures; and
- Taking corrective action when necessary.

2. **Assigned staff will:**
- Ensure internal refrigeration temperatures are taken and recorded 2 times daily or as per public health authority.
- Maintain recorded temperatures with dates and times for at least 6 months.

### Refrigeration
- The refrigeration unit designated as a vaccine fridge must ONLY be used for storing vaccines and no other purpose.
- Stock no more than a one-month supply if possible.
- Organize vaccines by product in original packaging.
- Leave space between vaccine packages to allow air flow.
- Protect all vaccines from light exposure.
- Do not store vaccine on door shelves.
- Ensure that the vaccine refrigerator is plugged into an emergency outlet connected to a generator.

### Reporting
- Cold chain failures are to be reported to health authorities.

## EXTERNAL
- Alberta: Vaccine Storage and Handling Policy for Provincially Funded Vaccine
- Manitoba: Cold Chain Protocol – Vaccines and Biologics
- Ontario: Vaccine Storage and Handling Guidelines

## EDUCATION
1. IPC7-P10-E1 – Packing Cooler for Vaccine Transport

## TOOLS
1. IPC7-P10-T10 - Cold Chain Checklist

----

> **Note:** This document is uncontrolled when printed.
> Extendicare (Canada) Inc. will provide, on request, information in an accessible format or with communication supports to people with disabilities, in a manner that takes into account their disability. Confidential and Proprietary Information of Extendicare (Canada) Inc. © 2025
> Page 1 of 1